Let’s start by asking a question:
Should the Governing Body
and the brothers who are taking the lead
in our organization just mainly focus
on spiritual matters and not be concerned
about financial matters?
Well, some may answer,
“Yes, that’s what they should be doing.”
And perhaps these ones
may even feel a little embarrassed
if money matters are mentioned
at meetings or on JW Broadcasting®.
Perhaps they may feel
that there’s a precedent
back in Acts chapter 6,
where it speaks
about the days after Pentecost
when the daily food distribution
was taking place.
We remember there that the apostles
decided that they would delegate that work
—the work of giving food at the tables—
to a group of men.
And remember, they said
that they would then focus
on the spiritual aspects—prayer and so on.
So is this the basis, then, for us to say
that we should just focus
on spiritual matters?
Well, even looking
at that account, we realize
that the apostles were very much involved
with the arrangement, weren’t they?
They set the arrangement in place.
They made sure
the food distribution took place,
even though they personally didn’t go
to the tables and hand out the food.
But when we look at the Scriptures,
we see very clearly
that although we have
a spiritual responsibility
(a spiritual work) that we need to do,
there is also a physical side
to “the relief ministry”
and many other aspects
that we need to be concerned about.
Let’s take for example the apostle Paul.
If you’d like to take your Bibles,
turn with me to Galatians chapter 2.
The time setting is about the year 49 C.E.,
and Paul and Barnabas are in Jerusalem,
and here, basically, they get the approval
from the governing body
to go out to the nations.
So let’s look at Galatians 2:9, 10:
“And when they recognized
the undeserved kindness
“that was given me,
James and Cephas and John,
“the ones who seemed to be pillars,
“gave Barnabas and me
the right hand of fellowship,
“[or in other words,
they gave approval to them and support]
“so that we should go to the nations
but they to those who are circumcised.”
So here the assignment was given,
but then in verse 10, notice:
“They asked only
that we keep the poor in mind,
[and notice, Paul says] and this
I have also earnestly endeavored to do.”
So obviously,
this relief ministry
involving financial matters
was something of concern
to Paul (of interest to him).
So when we think about that,
we see how the apostle Paul
did apply this admonition
in his ministry
—his third missionary tour,
which took place between the years 52-56 C.E.
He was involved
with collecting contributions and donations
from the brothers to take back
for the poor brothers in Judea
who had a very hard time
at that particular period of time.
Let’s look at an example of what Paul said
in 1 Corinthians chapter 16.
At 1 Corinthians 16:1-4,
here he’s speaking
to the Corinthians and says:
“Now concerning the collection
for the holy ones,
“you may follow the directions I gave
to the congregations of Galatia.
“On the first day of every week,
“each of you should set something aside
according to his own means,
“so that collections
will not take place when I arrive.
“But when I get there, I will send
the men you approve of in your letters
to take your kind gift to Jerusalem.”
But now notice what Paul says in verse 4:
“However, if it seems advisable
for me to go there also,
they will go there with me.”
So Paul while in the midst
of his third missionary tour,
which of course had a great spiritual theme
—helping people, preaching the good news—
was still interested
in the collection of funds
that would help the brothers
back in Jerusalem.
And notice there in verse 4
that he even raises the possibility
of stopping his missionary work
and actually traveling back to Jerusalem.
Well, that’s exactly what happened.
If you turn across to Romans,
Romans chapter 15,
we’ll see what eventuated.
Did it seem advisable for him to go back?
Well, at Romans 15:25, 26, we’re told:
“But now I am about to travel
to Jerusalem
to minister to the holy ones.”
Now, publications have made the point
that this return to Jerusalem
—the main purpose—
was to take this money back
to the brothers there in Judea.
And then he goes on to say:
“For those in Macedonia and Achaia
“have been pleased to share their things
“by a contribution to the poor
among the holy ones in Jerusalem.”
So was the financial aspect
—the taking of contributions and donations—
important to Paul?
Yes.
He viewed it important enough
to actually put on hold his missionary work
and make that journey back.
And when we look at the background there,
we see that perhaps
there were nine brothers
that traveled together
and these brothers then took these funds
(probably a substantial amount)
back to Jerusalem.
And we have made the comment
that this perhaps helped
with the safety element
and also credibility
to make sure
that nobody could question Paul
with the funds that he was taking back.
This also included Titus
and men who were trustworthy and well-known
and approved of by the brothers there
in the various parts of Europe and Asia.
But were these gifts that they were taking
just a matter of charity,
giving out freely to others?
Well, let’s look again in the Scriptures,
this time to 2 Corinthians chapter 8.
At 2 Corinthians 8:13-15,
this gives us a reason, we could say,
for the policy, or the viewpoint,
that the Governing Body has
with regard to helping others.
So 2 Corinthians 8:13-15 says:
“For I do not want to make it easy
for others, but difficult for you;
“but that by means of an equalizing,
“your surplus at the present time
might offset their need,
“so that their surplus
might also offset your deficiency,
“that there may be an equalizing.
“Just as it is written:
“‘The person with much did not have too much,
and the person with little
did not have too little.’”
What’s the principle here?
The principle is
that even though these contributions
were being given
to poor brothers and sisters,
everyone had to do something.
It wasn’t just a charity
where you gave money to the poor,
but rather, there was an expectation
that each person
—whether they were poor or they had more—
would do something toward the situation.
And that’s exactly the view
the Governing Body takes today.
Yes, Bibles and Bible literature
are provided free of charge (without cost)
to our brothers in all parts of the earth,
and the brothers
then donate according to their means.
Kingdom Halls
are being built in many countries
that can’t afford to build Kingdom Halls,
and yet again the Governing Body
allows the opportunity for the brothers
in those countries to also donate
toward the construction of Kingdom Halls.
Why?
Christendom would probably say:
“Well, these are poor people.
Let’s just make it a charity.”
But you see, Jesus didn’t stop the widow
from putting the two coins in, did he?
He didn’t say:
“Look. Hold on.
“You need that; you’re poor.
Let the rich people put money in.”
No, Jesus allowed her to make that donation.
Why?
Because that was her gift to Jehovah
and Jehovah would bless her for doing that.
So when we think about what’s happening
with regard to our organization
—not only the printing of Bibles, literature,
building of Kingdom Halls
but also this huge disaster relief
that continues on—
what can we be happy with?
We can be happy
with the viewpoint of the Governing Body,
and we can be very happy
that the Publishing Committee
of the Governing Body
does look after our limited means.
Yes, they care for the money so that
when the Governing Body makes decisions
about what needs to be done, they don’t say,
“There’s no money for it.”
No, they make sure that our limited funds
are available for the important work
—to spiritually feed people
and help them in a physical sense too.